http://www.nytimes.com/2013/09/02/dining/butterscotch-pudding-creamy-light-and-nutty.html

Pizzeria Locale’s Butterscotch Budino

For the pudding:

  3 cups heavy cream
  1 1/2 cups milk
  150 grams dark brown sugar (3/4 cup plus 1 tablespoon)
  5 grams fine sea salt (3/4 teaspoon)
  4 large egg yolks
  1 large egg
  12 grams cornstarch (1 tablespoon plus 1 teaspoon)
  4 1/2 tablespoons unsalted butter

For the ganache:

  1/4 cup heavy cream
  70 grams chopped milk chocolate (2.5 ounces)
  Whipped cream, for serving

1. Make the pudding: In a small pot, bring 3 cups cream and milk to a simmer. Cover to keep warm.

2. In a medium pot, bring brown sugar, 1/3 cup water and salt to a boil. Cook, stirring occasionally to keep mixture from scorching, until it reaches 240 degrees on a candy thermometer, about 10 minutes. The mixture should be a deep brown color and smell nutty and caramelized.

3. Immediately whisk cream mixture into brown sugar to stop the cooking. The mixture will seize. Bring to a boil, whisking constantly, and cook until smooth.

4. In a small bowl, whisk together egg yolks, egg and cornstarch. Pour a ladleful of hot cream mixture into the egg mixture, whisking constantly so the eggs don’t curdle. Pour egg mixture into the pot with the cream, whisking more. Cook for another 2 to 4 minutes, until thickened. It’s O.K. if the mixture comes to a simmer.

5. Strain mixture into a bowl or large glass measuring cup with a spout and whisk in butter until smooth. Divide among 8 serving dishes and chill for at least 4 hours until custards are set.

6. Make the ganache: In a small saucepan, heat cream until steaming. Add chocolate and stir constantly over very low heat until just melted. Strain into a glass measuring cup with a spout.

7. Pour a thin layer of ganache over the tops of the custards. You may not use all of the ganache depending on how wide your serving dishes are. Chill for at least 4 more hours to set the ganache. Serve with whipped cream on top.
--