http://www.nytimes.com/recipes/1014852/Grilled-Fingerling-Potato-Salad-With-Chipotle-Bacon-Vinaigrette.html

Grilled Fingerling-Potato Salad With Chipotle Bacon Vinaigrette

Ingredients

  12 to 14 small fingerling potatoes
  4 slices bacon
  1 large red onion, peeled and sliced in rounds
  5 tablespoons extra-virgin olive oil
  1 tablespoon rendered bacon fat
  4 tablespoons red-wine vinegar
  1 chipotle chile en adobo, or to taste, mashed and minced
  Kosher salt and freshly ground black pepper to taste

Directions

1. Put the potatoes in a large pot and cover with 2 inches of water and a tablespoon of salt, then set over high heat until it comes to a boil. Cook about 5 to 7 minutes. Drain potatoes, place on a baking sheet and allow to cool slightly, then halve the potatoes lengthwise. (You can do this the day before.)

2. Meanwhile, cook the bacon in a sauté pan until crisp. Reserve bacon and, in a small bowl, 1 tablespoon of the rendered fat.

3. Light a fire in a fire pit with a grill, or in a charcoal grill, or set a gas grill to high. If you have a strong vent in your kitchen, you may use your stove with a burner set to high. Place a large cast-iron grill pan over the heat and allow it to get hot. You can let the fire die slightly. If using a gas grill or stove, turn heat to medium.

4. Put the potatoes and the sliced onions in a large bowl and toss gently with 2 tablespoons of the olive oil, and salt and pepper to taste. Working in batches, grill the potatoes cut-side down on the grill until they have developed a light char, approximately 2 to 3 minutes. Grill the onions until they are charred, approximately 4 to 6 minutes a side. Return potatoes and onions to bowl.

5. For the dressing, combine the remaining olive oil, bacon fat, red-wine vinegar and chipotle in a small bowl and whisk to emulsify. Add salt and pepper to taste. Add the dressing to the potato-and-onion mixture and toss gently to combine. Let sit for 20 minutes to allow the flavors to penetrate the potatoes. Crumble bacon over the top.
--