https://www.nytimes.com/2009/11/18/dining/182arex.html

Lemon Barley Stuffing With Shiitakes, Hazelnuts and Chive Butter 

For the Barley-Mushroom Mixture:

  2 tablespoons unsalted butter
  2 leeks, white and light-green part only, finely chopped
  2 cups pearled barley
  1 rosemary sprig
  1 1/2 cups chicken stock
  1 1/2 teaspoons kosher salt, more to taste
  1 1/4 pounds shiitake mushroom caps, sliced 1/4-inch thick
  3 tablespoons extra virgin olive oil
  3/4 teaspoon freshly ground black pepper
  1 cup toasted, peeled hazelnuts, coarsely chopped
  1/2 cup chopped fresh parsley

For the chive butter:

  2 large garlic cloves, finely chopped
  3/4 teaspoons kosher salt
  Finely grated zest of 1 small lemon plus one teaspoon
    freshly squeezed lemon juice, more to taste
  1/2 cup chopped chives (about 1 bunch)
  4 tablespoons unsalted butter, softened.

Directions:

1. Preheat oven to 400 degrees. In a large pot, melt butter over medium-high heat. Add leeks and cook, stirring, until softened, about 5 minutes. Add barley and rosemary sprig; cook 1 minute more. Pour in the stock, 1 1/2 cups water and 3/4 teaspoon salt. Bring to a boil over high heat; reduce heat, cover and simmer until barley is tender and most liquid has evaporated, about 1 hour 15 minutes. Check it after an hour. If it is tender but liquid is not absorbed, drain barley in a strainer. Or if liquid has evaporated and barley is still not tender, add a little more water and continue cooking until it is.

2. Meanwhile, toss mushrooms with oil,

3/4 teaspoon salt and 3/4 teaspoon pepper. Spread in a single layer on two large baking sheets. Roast, tossing occasionally, until tender and beginning to crisp around edges, 20 to 25 minutes.

3. Make chive butter: In a mortar and pestle or mini food processor, mash together the garlic and salt until it forms a paste. Stir in the lemon zest and juice until salt dissolves. Pound or pulse in the chives, then stir in the butter until incorporated.

4. Spoon hot barley into a large bowl. Stir in mushrooms, hazelnuts, parsley and chive butter until well combined. Taste and add more salt and lemon if necessary.

Yield: About 9 cups, enough to stuff a 10- to 12-pound turkey.
--