http://well.blogs.nytimes.com/2014/02/19/learning-to-cut-the-sugar/
From: “The Fat Chance Cookbook”

Polenta Patties With Sauteed Greens, Poached Eggs, Roma Tomatoes and Basil Salsa

Ingredients for the Polenta

  1 cup corn grits or cornmeal
  4 cups water
  Salt to taste

Directions for the Polenta

Bring water and salt to a boil in a large pot over high heat. Once the liquid is boiling, slowly add the grits or cornmeal, stirring constantly with a whisk to keep lumps from forming. When the grain is mixed smoothly into the liquid, reduce the heat to low and simmer gently for 30 minutes until very thick. Stir occasionally to keep the polenta from sticking. Allow to cool in an oiled 8-inch square pan or loaf pan.

Ingredients for the Salsa

  1 pound Roma tomatoes, diced into 1/4-inch pieces
  1 tablespoon garlic, peeled and minced
  1/2 cup chopped fresh basil
  1/2 cup extra-virgin olive oil
  1/4 cup balsamic vinegar
  1 tablespoon cracked black pepper
  1 teaspoon salt

Directions for the Salsa

Mix the tomatoes, garlic, basil, oil, balsamic vinegar, pepper and salt together in a bowl. The salsa is best when used immediately. Yield: 2 cups.

Ingredients

  1 batch polenta (see below)
  2 tablespoons olive oil
  6 cups greens: spinach, chard or kale, rinsed
  6 eggs
  1 teaspoon distilled white vinegar
  1/2 cup Roma Tomato Basil Salsa (see below)

Directions

1. Remove the polenta from the pan and divide into six servings.

2. Heat 1 tablespoon olive oil in a large pan over medium-high heat. Add the polenta slices and fry until golden brown on both sides, about 3 minutes per side. Transfer the polenta slices to a plate and keep warm.

3. Add the remaining 1 tablespoon of oil to the pan and sauté the greens until wilted and tender.

4. Heat 2 inches of water just to a boil in a separate medium-size frying pan, add the white vinegar, then reduce the heat to low. Crack the eggs into the water and poach them until desired doneness, 2 to 3 minutes for soft yolks. Using a slotted spoon, remove the eggs from the water, being careful not to break the yolks. Transfer the eggs to a plate.

5. Place a polenta patty on each of six plates. Top each patty with greens and a poached egg. Pour salsa over all. Or, place all the polenta slices on a platter, top with greens, poached eggs and salsa.

Yield: 6 servings

Nutritional information per serving: 450 calories; 18 grams fat; 3.5 grams saturated fat; 165 milligrams cholesterol; 61 grams carbohydrates; 3 grams dietary fiber; 330 milligrams sodium
--