http://www.food.com/recipe/bon-appetits-mulligatawny-soup-chicken-4891

Bon Appetit's Mulligatawny Soup (Chicken)

Ingredients

  1 garlic clove, minced
  1/4 teaspoon cumin seed, ground
  6 whole cloves, finely crushed
  1 tablespoon curry powder ( or to taste)
  1/4 teaspoon ginger, ground
  cayenne pepper
  1/4 cup unsalted butter ( 1/2 stick)
  1 (4 -4 1/4 lb) roasting chickens, cut into serving pieces
  chicken giblets, coarsely chopped
  3 stalks celery, with leaves, thinly sliced
  2 large onions, chopped
  2 carrots, diced
  1 leek, thinly sliced ( white part only)
  11 cups chicken stock, defatted ( preferably homemade, 2 quarts plus 3 cups)
  salt & pepper, freshly ground
  2/3 cup long grain rice
  2 medium apples, peeled, cored and diced ( tart)
  1 cup plain yogurt
  2 tablespoons fresh lemon juice ( or to taste)
  2/3 cup whipping cream, warmed
  chopped fresh parsley, to garnish
  lightly toasted sliced almonds, to garnish

Directions

1. Combine garlic and spices.

2. Melt butter in large skillet over medium-high heat. Add chicken and saute until lightly browned on all sides.

3. Add giblets and saute until cooked through.

4. Transfer chicken and giblets to stockpot. Drain all but 1 tablespoon fat from skillet. Add celery, onion, carrot, leek and spice mixture and blend well.

5. Add a small ladle of stock and cook over low heat, stirring constantly, until vegetables are tender.

6. Add to chicken.

7. Stir in remaining stock and season with salt and pepper.

8. Cover and simmer 30 minutes.

9. Remove chicken with slotted spoon and set aside. Add rice to soup and continue cooking 15 minutes.

10. When chicken is cool enough to handle, cut meat into bite-size pieces, discarding skin and bones.

11. Return chicken to soup and blend in apples and yogurt. Simmer 10 minutes.

12. Degrease soup if necessary.

13. Stir in lemon juice, then blend in cream.

14. Taste and adjust seasoning.

15. Pour into heated tureen and sprinkle with parsley and almonds.
--