http://www.foodnetwork.com/recipes/tyler-florence/green-curry-chicken-recipe.html

Green Curry Chicken

Ingredients

  Curry:

    2 tablespoons vegetable oil
    1 medium onion, cut in 8 wedges
    1 green bell pepper, cut in 8 wedges
    1 stalk lemongrass, white bulb only
    1 tablespoon coarsely chopped fresh ginger
    3 tablespoons Thai green curry paste, recipe follows
    2 kaffir lime leaves
    3 cups unsweetened coconut milk, 2 (13.5 ounce) cans
    3/4 cup chicken broth
    1 1/2 pounds skinless, boneless chicken breasts, cut in 1-inch strips
    Sea salt
    1 lime, juiced
    Fresh Thai basil leaves
    Fresh cilantro leaves
    Lime wedges, for garnish

  Thai Green Curry Paste:

    2 tablespoons coriander seeds
    1 tablespoon cumin seeds
    1 tablespoon whole black peppercorns
    8 fresh Thai green chiles
    2 shallots, coarsely chopped
    4 garlic cloves, smashed
    Small handful of fresh cilantro sprigs
    2-inch piece galangal, peeled and coarsely chopped
    2 lemon grass stalks, white part only, coarsely chopped
    2 kaffir lime leaves, torn
    2 teaspoons dried shrimp paste
    1/2 cup water

Directions

Curry:

Place a large, deep skillet over medium heat and coat with the oil. Saute the onion and green peppers for 3 minutes to soften. Split the piece of lemongrass down the middle and whack it with the flat side of a knife to open the flavor. Add the lemongrass, ginger, curry paste and lime leaves to the skillet and stir for 2 minutes. Pour in the coconut milk and chicken broth. Lay the chicken pieces in the mixture to poach; add a pinch of salt. Stir together and simmer over low heat for 10 to 15 minutes. Squeeze in the lime juice and shower with basil and cilantro; serve in dinner bowls with lime wedges.

Thai Green Curry Paste:

Heat the coriander, cumin seeds, and peppercorns in a small dry skillet for 2 minutes until fragrant. Put the seeds in a clean coffee grinder or spice mill and buzz the spices to a powder.

Put the spice blend and remaining ingredients in a food processor, and pulse to combine. Pour in the water to help grind everything down into a paste.
--
