http://www.foodnetwork.com/recipes/emeril-lagasse/barbecued-pulled-pork-sandwiches-with-homemade-bbq-sauce-cole-slaw-and-fried-pickles-recipe/index.html

Barbecued Pulled Pork Sandwiches with Homemade BBQ Sauce, Cole Slaw, and Fried Pickles

Ingredients

  1 boneless pork butt, about 4 pounds
  3 tablespoons dark brown sugar
  2 tablespoons Essence, recipe follows
  1 tablespoon salt
  1 tablespoon cumin
  1 tablespoon paprika
  1 tablespoon freshly ground black pepper
  1 tablespoon cayenne
  Wet Mop Basting Sauce, recipe follows
  Barbecue Sauce, recipe follows
  8 Hamburger buns
  Kicked Up Cole Slaw, recipe follows
  Fried Pickles, recipe follows

Directions

Place the pork in a baking dish. In a bowl, combine the sugar, Essence, salt, cumin, paprika, pepper, and cayenne. Rub the seasoning evenly over the pork to coat. Cover with plastic and refrigerate at least 4 hours or overnight.

Preheat an oven or smoker to 225 degrees F.

Bring the pork to room temperature and place in a roasting pan, fat side up. Slow cook in the oven, basting with the wet mop basting sauce every 45 minutes, until tender and the internal temperature reaches 160 degrees F. (The cooking should take about 6 to 7 hours.) Remove from the oven and let rest for 20 to 30 minutes.

With a knife and fork or two forks, pull the meat apart into small slices or chunks. Toss with the barbecue sauce, to taste, and divide among the hamburger buns. Top with the coleslaw. Serve with the fried pickles and additional Barbecue Sauce on the side.


Essence (Emeril's Creole Seasoning) Ingredients

  2 1/2 tablespoons paprika
  2 tablespoons salt
  2 tablespoons garlic powder
  1 tablespoon black pepper
  1 tablespoon onion powder
  1 tablespoon cayenne pepper
  1 tablespoon dried leaf oregano
  1 tablespoon dried thyme

Directions

Combine all ingredients thoroughly and store in an airtight jar or container.

Yield: about 2/3 cup

Recipe from "New New Orleans Cooking", by Emeril Lagasse and Jessie Tirsch. Published by William and Morrow, 1993.

Wet Mop Basting Sauce:

  1 cup white vinegar
  1 cup apple cider vinegar
  1 tablespoon dark brown sugar
  1 tablespoon red pepper flakes
  1 tablespoon cracked black pepper
  1 tablespoon salt

The night before you cook the pork, combine all the ingredients in a large bowl and whisk well. Refrigerate and let the flavors blend overnight.

Yield: 2 1/4 cups

Barbecue Sauce:

  1 cup apple cider vinegar
  1 cup ketchup
  3 tablespoons packed dark brown sugar
  1 tablespoon yellow mustard
  1 tablespoon molasses
  1 teaspoon salt
  1/2 teaspoon dried crushed red pepper

In a bowl, combine all the ingredients and whisk well to dissolve the sugar. Place in a squeeze bottle and dress the pulled pork sandwiches to taste.

Yield: about 2 cups

Fried Pickles:
  1 (16-ounce) jar whole dill pickles
  1 cup buttermilk
  2 tablespoons hot red pepper sauce
  1 cup all-purpose flour
  1 cup yellow cornmeal
  2 tablespoons Essence, plus more for dusting
  4 cups vegetable oil, for frying
  Salt

Drain the pickles in a colander, then spread on paper towels to drain completely.

Combine the buttermilk and hot sauce in a bowl. In a separate bowl, combine the flour, cornmeal, and 2 tablespoons of Essence.

Heat the oil in a medium pot to 350 degrees F.

Submerge the pickles in batches in the buttermilk, then dip into the flour mixture, tossing to evenly coat. Shake in a strainer to remove any excess batter. Add to the oil in batches, turning, until golden brown and crisp, about 2 minutes. Drain on paper towels, and season with Essence and salt, to taste. Repeat with the remaining ingredients.

Serve hot.

Yield: about 6 servings

Cole Slaw:

  3/4 cup mayonnaise
  1/4 cup Dijon mustard
  1/4 cup packed light brown sugar
  3 tablespoons apple cider vinegar
  2 tablespoons buttermilk
  4 teaspoons celery seeds
  1 teaspoon salt
  1/4 teaspoon freshly ground black pepper
  1/8 teaspoon cayenne
  3 cups shredded green cabbage (about 1/2 head cabbage)
  3 cups shredded red cabbage (about 1/2 head cabbage)
  1 green bell pepper, finely diced
  1 large carrot, peeled and shredded
  1/2 cup grated yellow onion
  1/4 cup minced fresh parsley

In a bowl, combine the mayonnaise, mustard, sugar, vinegar, buttermilk, celery seeds, salt, pepper, and cayenne, and whisk well to dissolve the sugar.

In a large bowl, combine the remaining ingredients. Toss with the dressing until evenly coated. Adjust seasoning, to taste. Place in the refrigerator, covered, to chill slightly before serving.

Yield: 8 servings
--