http://www.foodnetwork.com/recipes/north-indian-chicken-curry-recipe.html

North Indian Chicken Curry

Ingredients

  Curry:

    1 whole chicken, skin removed, cut into 12 pieces
    3 tablespoons salt, divided
    4 teaspoons ground black pepper, divided
    1/4 cup ghee or clarified butter
    4 cups sliced onions
    3-4 tablespoons sugar
    3 tablespoons minced garlic
    3 tablespoons minced ginger
    2 tablespoons minced green jalapeno chili
    1 bay leaf
    2 tablespoons Garam Masala, recipe follows
    4 cups diced tomatoes
    1 tablespoon tomato paste
    4 cups boiling potatoes, 2-inch cubes
    6 cups chicken stock, divided

  Garam Masala:

    1 tablespoon black peppercorns
    1/2 tablespoon whole cloves
    1 tablespoon plus 1/2 teaspoon cardamom seeds
    3 tablespoons cumin seeds
    3 tablespoons coriander seeds
    4 (3-inch) cinnamon sticks
    1/4 cup dried red chiles
    1/2 tablespoon freshly grated nutmeg
    1/2 cup turmeric

Directions

Curry:

Season chicken with 1 tablespoon of salt and 1 teaspoon black pepper. Set aside. In a large saucepan, heat the ghee. Stir-fry the onions until glossy. Season with the remaining 2 tablespoons salt, 2 teaspoons black pepper and sugar. Continue to stir-fry until soft but do not allow to brown.

Add the garlic, ginger, jalapeno, bay leaf, and garam masala. Stir-fry for 1 to 2 minutes until spices bloom and become aromatic.

Add the reserved seasoned chicken pieces, tomatoes, tomato paste, potatoes, and 4 cups of chicken stock. Slowly bring to a boil, stirring occasionally. When mixture comes to a boil, lower to a simmer and cook until chicken pieces are done, about 30 minutes. Add more chicken stock as necessary. Taste and adjust seasoning with salt, pepper, and sugar.

Garam Masala:

In a large saute pan, combine the black peppercorns, cloves, cardamom seeds, cumin seeds, coriander seeds, cinnamon sticks, and dried red chiles. Over medium heat, cook just until slightly toasted, stirring constantly. Turn off heat and stir in the grated nutmeg and turmeric.

Transfer to a food processor and grind to a fine powder. Pass through a fine strainer. Allow to cool to room temperature. Store in an airtight jar. Use as needed.
--