http://www.thekitchn.com/how-to-make-great-granola-every-time-cooking-lessons-from-the-kitchn-172459

Great Granola

Ingredients:

  3 cups old-fashioned rolled oats 
  2 to 2 1/2 cups your choice of nuts and seeds*
  1 1/2 teaspoons kosher salt
  1/4 teaspoon cinnamon
  1/2 teaspoon cardamom
  1/2 cup oil, such as olive oil
  1/2 cup + 1 tablespoon liquid sweetener, such as honey or maple syrup
  3/4 teaspoon vanilla
  3/4 cups dried fruits, chopped

  * Note: Nuts that are already roasted should go in at the end
          after the granola is baked so as not to burn.

Directions:

1. Set out your ingredients. For this particular run of granola we are using: 3 cups old-fashioned oats, 1/2 cup pumpkin seeds, 1/2 cup sesame seeds, 1/2 cup almonds, 1/2 cup wide-flake, unsweetened coconut (added near the end of baking), 1 1/2 teaspoon kosher salt, 1/4 teaspoon cinnamon, 1/2 teaspoon cardamom, 3/4 teaspoon vanilla extract, 1/2 cup olive oil, 1/2 cup + 1 tablespoon maple syrup, 3/4 cup dried cherries, chopped (added at the end), 1 cup roasted pistachios, chopped (added at the end)

2. Preheat the oven to 350°F. Mix the oats and any untoasted nuts or seeds together in a large bowl. Stir to combine.

3. Add salt, cinnamon, and cardamom and stir thoroughly to combine.

4. Stir in the oil, sweetener, and vanilla.

5. Turn the granola out onto a half-sheet pan and bake for about 40 minutes, or until the mixture is light brown and toasty.

6. Stir every 15 minutes or so for an even color and to make sure the granola is cooking evenly. (If using coconut, add in the last 15 minutes of baking.)

7. Roughly chop any dried fruits and roasted nuts.

8. Remove from the oven and add the chopped dried fruits and any roasted nuts at this time. Stir to combine.

9. Let cool before enjoying. The granola will continue cooking just a bit in the cooling process — it will firm up/dry out, so if it seems a little too wet don't worry.

10. Store in an airtight container and it should stay fresh for 7 to 10 days. For longer shelf life, store in the refrigerator.

Additional Notes:
1. Want Clumpy Granola? The key to getting chunkier granola is not to mix the granola as it's baking. Pat the wet mixture down into the baking sheet with the back of a spatula and don't mix it or disturb it while baking. Then, after cooking, you can remove it from the pan in granola chunks and store as indicated above.

2. Nuts and Fruits: I love working with sliced almonds, pecans, walnuts, pistachios, hazelnuts and sesame seeds. As for fruits, dried cranberries, cherries, apricots, raisins and currents are all great choices. Experiment with different combinations to find your favorite!

3. Consider Your Oats: Make sure to use old-fashioned oats for your granola, not quick-cooking oats. quick-cooking oats are less substantial and will cook differently and result in an almost dusty granola texture.

4. Bulk Spices: When buying spices for your granola, buy in bulk! It's almost always the freshest.

5. Mixing Techniques: While granola is absolutely a one-bowl affair, you want to mix all of your dry ingredients together before adding your wet ingredients so as to avoid clumping of salts and spices.

6. Don't Fear the Salt! Salt enhances the flavor of your granola — most people don't use enough of it! Use it.

7. Experiment with Savory Additions: I use olive oil for my granola which gives it a special toastiness. I also love using cacao nibs and a little extra salt, all of which result in an almost savory granola. Explore that savory edge!
--