http://www.nytimes.com/2009/11/18/dining/181arex.html

Spiced Apple-Sausage Stuffing With Cranberries and Brandy 

Ingredients

  1 cup dried cranberries
  1/4 cup brandy
  4 pounds ground pork (or substitute ground turkey)
  5 1/2 teaspoons kosher salt, more to taste
  5 1/2 teaspoons ground black pepper
  1 tablespoon ground cinnamon
  1/4 teaspoon ground cloves
  3 garlic cloves, finely chopped
  2 1/2 teaspoons grated ginger root
  6 tablespoons extra virgin olive oil
  4 medium leeks, white and light-green part only, finely chopped
  2 celery stalks, sliced 
  2 bay leaves
  2 1/2 teaspoons whole coriander seed
  4 medium apples, peeled, cored and cut into 1/2-inch chunks
  2 tablespoons cider vinegar

Directions

1. In a small pot, bring cranberries, brandy and 3 tablespoons water to a simmer. Turn off heat and let stand until ready to use.

2. In a large bowl, using your hands, mash and squeeze together the pork, 5 teaspoons each of salt and pepper, the cinnamon and cloves. Make sure spices are evenly distributed. In a small bowl, mix together the garlic and ginger root.

3. In a very large skillet, heat 3 tablespoons oil over medium-high heat. Add leeks, celery, bay leaves and coriander; cook, stirring, until vegetables are almost softened, about 4 minutes. Stir in the apples and remaining 1/2 teaspoon each salt and pepper. Cook 2 minutes, reduce heat to medium, cover and cook until just tender, about 3 minutes more. Transfer mixture to a bowl. Add vinegar to cranberry mixture.

4. Add another tablespoon oil to same skillet over medium-high heat. Add a third of the garlic-ginger mixture and cook, stirring, for 30 seconds. Add a third of the pork and brown, breaking up with a fork, until cooked through, about 5 minutes. Add a third of the cranberries and their liquid; cook, scraping up any browned bits from bottom of pan, until most liquid has evaporated. Spoon pork into bowl with apple mixture; repeat two more times with remaining ingredients. Toss everything together; taste and add more salt if necessary.

--